Hey,
guys,
welcome back.
So in this video,
we're going to discuss the workbook before save event.
So the workbook before save event,
and as the name suggests,
it actually gets fired before saving a workbook.
OK?
And that means that it gets fired just after you hit the save button on your keyboard.
After you press control and s and before the actual saving,
this macro gets fired.
Okay,
So to apply that event,
you need to go to the developer tab on the ribbon.
Click on visual.
Basic.
Okay.
And make sure you are in this workbook module here and select workbook from this menu and
then from the menu on the right here,
you're going to select that before save event.
I'm just going to lead the workbook open event because we don't need it.
And as you can see here,
this before safe event has actually two parameters.
There is the save as you I and there is the cancel parameter,
and they are both bullion.
And that means that the both except two or false values on Lee Now the save as you I
parameter what this controls is that it controls whether you get the save as dialog box
when trying to see the workbook that is not saved already or that is open as a read only
workbook.
So what I'm meaning is when you open a new workbook.
Okay,
this is a new workbook opened and you can see her Excel gives its temporary name of book
one.
When you press control and s on your keyboard,
you get the safe as dialogue.
Boxer This supposedly safe as our dialogue box and you click,
browse,
and then you can start saving.
Okay,
this is a save as doll of box.
Supposedly,
this option should be able to enable or disable that.
Okay.
Disabled.
Getting the the safe as dialog box.
Supposedly,
you should be able to set the value of that two false and then the save as dialog box would
not appear so we can actually try that.
So I'm just gonna go to book one here,
click on this workbook here,
and then click on workbook here and click on before save.
And then if I put the sea vise you I equals falls.
Supposedly that should disable the save as dialog box from appearing.
So if I go to the to book one again here and press control and asks.
Actually,
I'm still getting the save as dialog box.
I'm still getting this even as option I've researched on the Internet and a lot of people
are actually reporting that it's not working,
so we're not going to discuss it any further.
The second parameter here that we're going to explain is the Council Parmenter.
And what this permit,
er does is that if it is put equals two,
true,
then your workbook will not be saved.
So I'm actually gonna write,
cancel equals true here as and this is gonna be my code.
Basically just cancel equals true.
And this goat should be run whenever I try to save my workbook.
So I'm just going to write my name here,
okay?
And this cell,
I'm going to try to save the workbook and actually will not be saved.
Ah,
so if pressed control and eso normally should be saved,
it will not be saved.
Even if I try to close and press savior,
the workbook gets closed.
However,
let's try to open it again.
Okay,
so after opening the workbook again,
my name has not been saved in this cell,
okay?
And have not been able to safe the workbook.
And even when I go to this workbook here,
actually,
even the procedure that I have written,
which is for the before safe event has not been saved.
Nothing has been saved on the workbook.
OK,
so when you set,
cancel equals two.
True,
your workbook is not gonna be safe.
Okay,
so let's have an example here for the before save event.
So,
actually,
let's say that this is where the user should enter his or her name and Selby one,
and they want to make sure that the enter their name and if the name is not entered If the
cell is blank than the workbook is not going to receive,
if they if they try to save it,
then it will not be saved.
And they will have a message box that says Workbook has not been safe.
Please enter your name.
Okay,
So to do that,
we're going to start writing an if statement.
So if this workbooks worksheets sheet,
one range B one is equal to blank then and if cancel is equal to true,
So there is no no saving that's going to be done and their message box cannot save.
Please enter your name.
Okay,
so they're gonna have a message box that says cannot save.
Please enter unit.
So now if I try to save the workbook and there is no name entered here,
it's blank.
But try to save,
cannot save.
Please enter your name.
So I press control and s and I got this message box.
However,
if I put my name here,
I tried to see the workbook.
It's going to save,
and I have not been given the message box.
If I close and reopen it,
I should have my name there.
So I'm gonna do that.
I'm gonna close that now,
have reopened it.
And as you can see here,
I've got my name in in Selby once.
I've been able to save the workbook successfully.
Okay,
so this is how the before safe event works.
It actually triggers.
It actually executes any code after you press save or press control s on your keyboard,
okay?
Or or hit file and save or click on this button.
Save here and before the actual saving.
And through that event,
you can actually disable the saving off a workbook.
If you need to buy,
setting cancel equals true.
OK,
thanks,
guys,
for watching this video I'll see on the next.